okay the next section on tech similarity
has to deal with a specific kind of word
similarity
that are based on the Soraa such as
warnet let me ask you a question look at
the four pairs of words shown here and
tell me which pair exhibits the greatest
similarity deer elk deer horse deer
mouse or deer hoof I think the answer to
this question should be pretty obvious
if you know what out means and the
answer is deer and elk are the most
similar pair and I want to ask now why
do you think that they're most similar
well when you know that they're both
kinds of deer but how does a natural
language system know that well let's see
remember the walnut tree at least the
segment that I showed you under ungulate
Wow wait let's see where those animals
or those words appear in this tree deer
and elk appear very close to each other
in fact one of them is an immediate high
premium of the other one whereas horse
is pretty far so now if you want to
define a similarity metric based on the
word net the simplest thing that we can
do is to identify the nodes where the
different words appear and to count the
number of links that are needed to get
from one to the other so according to
this metric elk and deer are very
similar because there's only one hop
that separates them the distance between
deer and horse is much large we have to
go from deer to women and to even-toed
ungulate ungulate or told angular2
equine and then horse so that's a total
of six humps so the distance from deer
to horse is 6 and the distance from deer
to elk is 1 now I need to mention here
that distance and similarity are related
the greater the distance the smaller the
similarity so there is an inverse
relationship between the two if you want
similarity and path length to go in the
same direction we need to put the
negative sign in front of the path
length so the first version of path
similarity that I want to introduce
today is what I call version 1 in that
case the similarity between the word V
and word W is just negation of the path
length between V and opt and for
practical purposes it turns out that
it's better to take a logarithm of the
path lengths so version 2 of our
similarity metric is just
- the logarithm of the path line between
we induct now there's some part of this
approach the first one is that there may
not be a tree or Forester presentation
for a specific domain for example the
medical domain or the financial domain
or any particular language for example
other 7,000 languages in the world there
are Wharton 8 type databases for only a
few dozen now specific words for example
term or proper noun may not be in any
treat may be something that is new or
something that is way too specific to be
included in any database and that more
interesting problem is that the hypernym
edges which are also known as is our
edges because an elk is a deer those
edges are not equally a part in
similarity space so sometimes two words
can be two hops apart or two edges apart
and they can still be relatively similar
semantically whereas another pair of
words with the same exact distance may
be actually much more different than the
first pair so let's look at some more
advanced versions of path similarity
that use word net type trees the version
thingy in our example was developed by
Philip Resnick in the 90s and it is
again based on - the logarithm of
something but the something is not the
path length but it is rather the
probability of observing the word that
appears in the corpus that is the lowest
common sub Sumer of the two words that
we are trying to compare so what does
lowest common subsume Urmi well it's
simply the node in the tree that is an
ancestor of both nodes that we want to
compare so if you want to compare deer
and horse we have to go all the way to
ungulate and if you want to compare deer
and elk we only need to go as far up the
hierarchy as deer so the LCS for deer
and horses ungulate the LCS for deer and
elk is deer and if you want to look at
the probability of those it should be
pretty obvious that in any given corpus
the probability of ungulate will be
larger than the probability of deer
because
angular's are more common than deer with
deer being a special case of ungulates
so if we take the logarithm of the
probability of those two values we are
going to obtain the similarity that
Phillip has named defined and there's
another metric in this category based on
the so called information content of a
node so it was developed by the kanga
Lane in the night late 90s its formula
is very simple I see or the information
content of a certain concept is minus
the logarithm of the probability of that
concept and then the similarity between
two words is defined as according to
this formula two times the logarithm of
the probability of the lowest common sub
sumer divided by the sum of the
logarithms of the probabilities of the
individual words so the example from the
Conlon's paper shows you the similarity
between hill and coast it is two times
the logarithm of the probability of
geological formation which is their
lowest common sub sumer in this case
that is zero point zero zero one seven
six in the numerator and then in the
denominator we have the logarithm of the
probability of hill so the logarithm of
zero point zero zero zero zero one eight
nine plus the logarithm of the
probability of coast which is zero point
four zeroes to 1/6 and then if you
simplify this expression you will see
that the similarity of hill and cost is
zero point 59 where one is the largest
possible value now I want to point out
that a lot of those algorithms are
implemented in software and there exists
versions for pretty much any major
programming language including Java and
C++ and more specifically the slide I
have shown you links to a Perl
implementation called wordnet similarity
by Ted Peterson at the University of
minnesota-duluth
and his students and also a Python
version that is part of the no TK
something that we have talked about
before and I explicitly for this slide
van and all TK to see how it computes
the similarity between different
of words I called the function Lin
similarity which implements the the
conga line similarity metric that I
showed you earlier
so the Lin similarity between dog and
cat using the brown corpus as the
knowledge base is 0.879
in the same conditions the similarity
between dog and elephant is smaller it's
0.5 3 1 and the similarity between dog
and elk is even smaller in 0.4 75 so
this concludes the section on methods
for word similarity based on this all
right we're going to continue now with
the next section on text similarity
using the vector space model